Adding MDPWS Compression Option (issue#97) (#162)
IHE/sdpi-fhir: SDPi_Supplement/asciidoc/volume2/mdpws-compression/tf2-ch-a-mdpws-compression.adoc

==== MDPWS Compression Option

<<ieee_11073_20702_2016>> (MDPWS) defines EXI as the designated means to compress XML data. However, EXI is lagging in adoption. Therefore, instead of using EXI compression, it is recommended to use HTTP compression with gzip (RFC 1952) as the minimum agreement between clients and servers. One issue with that is the missing official support for HTTP compression in HTTP request messages. Request headers are allowed to include Content-Encoding, but those might not be accepted by HTTP servers.

.R0005
[sdpi_requirement#r0005,sdpi_req_level=should]
****

> HTTP clients should request gzip compression by using Accept-Encoding with "gzip".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its role as an HTTP client, a <<actor_somds_participant>> should request gzip compression by using Accept-Encoding with "gzip".
```

****

> ===== Example of compression request:

Reviewer: I like the idea of making examples collapsible - at least when being part of a requirement. Would you mind if we agree on moving the example into the requirement box, removing the title and making the examples a listing?

```
 .R0005
[sdpi_requirement#r1005,sdpi_req_level=should]
****
HTTP clients should request gzip compression by using Accept-Encoding with "gzip".

.Examples
[%collapsible]
====
.Request header to request compression
[source]
----
GET /path/to/resource HTTP/1.1

Host: www.example.com

Accept-Encoding: gzip
----
[...]
====
****
```

[%collapsible]
====
[, cols="1"]
|===
|*Request header to request compression*|
GET /path/to/resource HTTP/1.1

Host: www.example.com

Accept-Encoding: gzip
|===
The client indicates gzip compression to be an accepted response encoding. Note that the server is nevertheless free to send the response without compression.

[, cols="1"]
|===
|*Response header indicating compressed content*|
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Date: mon, 26 June 2016 22:38:34 GMT

Server: Apache/1.3.3.7 (Unix)  (Red-Hat/Linux)

Last-Modified: Wed, 08 Jan 2020 23:11:55 GMT

Accept-Ranges: bytes

Content-Length: 438

Connection: close

Content-Type: text/xml; charset=UTF-8

Content-Encoding: gzip
|===
The HTTP server decided to encode the response with the gzip compression. Note that servers are not required to actually compress (e.g. due to load conditions or unknown algorithms they are entitled to answer with identity encoding).

====

> Unluckily, SDC makes heavy use of request payloads when delivering notifications. Hence, it is further recommended to allow clients to send compressed WS-Eventing Notification requests if a Subscribe request already included an accepted encoding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unluckily, SDC makes heavy use of request payloads when delivering notifications. Hence, it is further recommended to allow for <<actor_somds_provider>>s to send compressed WS-Eventing Notification requests if a Subscribe request already included an accepted encoding.
```

.R0006
[sdpi_requirement#r0006,sdpi_req_level=may]
****

> If an HTTP client includes an Accept-Encoding header field in an HTTP header in a WS-Eventing (W3C WS-Eventing) Subscribe request, then the Event Source may transmit Notifications related to that subscription encoded with the encoding that was defined in the Subscribe request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a <<actor_somds_consumer>> includes an Accept-Encoding header field in an HTTP header in a WS-Eventing Subscribe request, the Event Source may transmit Notifications related to that subscription encoded with the encoding that was defined in the Subscribe request.
```
